Caption: good morning everybody
Caption: so yep hannah mckelvey i am uh the cyber
Caption: development principal at telstra and i
Caption: can't believe a developer focused
Caption: conference kicks off with cyber how
Caption: incredibly fortunate you are
Caption: um
Caption: first of all thank you to the marvellous
Caption: sponsors who've made today possible
Caption: and i also want to follow on from
Caption: robin's gorgeous welcome to country and
Caption: respectfully acknowledge the past and
Caption: present traditional custodians of this
Caption: land on which we're meeting the wagyuk
Caption: people
Caption: i am ridiculously excited to be here
Caption: today
Caption: i'm super excited to hear from the
Caption: wisdom in the community and i'm also
Caption: excited because it's my first ever
Caption: keynote and for that i just want to
Caption: extend so much appreciation to the
Caption: organizers and the the support that they
Caption: have given me to put me in this position
Caption: and this opportunity i absolutely love
Caption: them all and i love this conference very
Caption: very much
Caption: i have as amy's mentioned travelled all
Caption: the way from the uk and from my earliest
Caption: days in growing up in england i've been
Caption: exposed to life through arts and through
Caption: science my grandfather is an artist was
Caption: an artist my dad is an electrical
Caption: engineer and an artist
Caption: and so
Caption: um keeping that in mind i went to
Caption: university and i studied cognitive
Caption: science which is blending computer
Caption: science and psychology together that
Caption: sort of human and artistic streak along
Caption: with the technology
Caption: i graduated and found myself working in
Caption: the ibm uk software development
Caption: laboratory and that was the first time
Caption: i'd had a really strong skew to more
Caption: towards the science and the tech
Caption: and although i was able to find a home
Caption: for myself in the technical writing
Caption: domain
Caption: it was still too far away from humans
Caption: and so i said about after some soul
Caption: searching which is what you call being
Caption: signed off working with depression in an
Caption: era where you're not really allowed to
Caption: talk about mental health challenges
Caption: i relocated myself to singapore
Caption: i took on an ibm role there doing
Caption: consulting work which would see me
Caption: offering solution designs delivering
Caption: training and education
Caption: and generally trying to assemble
Caption: something from the random collection of
Caption: licenses that the sales team had sold
Caption: um
Caption: got to spend months at a time in places
Caption: like jakarta and manila kl and further
Caption: afield hanoi beijing
Caption: chennai bangalore and it was just the
Caption: most remarkable three years of my life
Caption: getting that travel and exposure to
Caption: different people and humans and places
Caption: and countries
Caption: um i also met my husband
Caption: hello
Caption: on a blind date in singapore um and he's
Caption: a health and safety professional and we
Caption: started about building a life together
Caption: and i have two kids hello
Caption: um
Caption: after
Caption: sort of we were in thailand for about
Caption: four years and we were first hand
Caption: experiencing a military coup
Caption: the volatility of the oil and gas
Caption: industry we're like yeah maybe it's time
Caption: for something new so i personally was at
Caption: that point in my career where i wanted
Caption: to look for something that would give me
Caption: long-term
Caption: engagement i wanted something that was
Caption: relatively long-term stable or as much
Caption: as any of us could ever hope for and
Caption: also something that would just hold an
Caption: interest and keep me like
Caption: fascinated for years to come
Caption: so on the one hand i had blockchain and
Caption: on the other hand i had cyber security
Caption: at telstra in perth and so here i am
Caption: and for the last four and a half years
Caption: i've focused exclusively on devsecops
Caption: and application security and i
Caption: freaking love it it's the perfect blend
Caption: of humans and process and technology and
Caption: people
Caption: and i just i've got this crazy passion
Caption: about breaking down those barriers
Caption: between the security teams and the
Caption: development teams
Caption: so i've had a blast but i've also now
Caption: got a new role and that's exposing me to
Caption: life beyond the devsecops domain
Caption: and
Caption: having gone from this wonderful
Caption: beautiful place of working so closely on
Caption: apsec the rest of cyber security it's
Caption: actually a bit tricky so we're going to
Caption: get warmed up today with some fun
Caption: statistics
Caption: did you know
Caption: in 2020 more than one cyber crime was
Caption: reported every 10 minutes to the
Caption: australian cyber security center
Caption: we expect that to increase to one every
Caption: few seconds in the next decade
Caption: it's been a 500 increase in ransomware
Caption: since 2018. and the cost of that to
Caption: australian businesses last year
Caption: was three and a half billion australian
Caption: dollars
Caption: and globally in the next 10 years we're
Caption: going to see that soar beyond 250
Caption: billion
Caption: the pandemic has intensified attacks as
Caption: we've all moved in vast numbers to work
Caption: and
Caption: work from home and study from home we've
Caption: opened up this new way for um the
Caption: criminals to come and have their their
Caption: fill of their bank accounts
Caption: and then i learned that apparently if
Caption: you have a mobile phone
Caption: in your pocket you are on the
Caption: battlefield we are facing existential
Caption: threats at a cyber pearl harbor is
Caption: imminent
Caption: now i don't know about you but if i was
Caption: going to pick a michael bay ben affleck
Caption: cultural reference why would you choose
Caption: pearl harbor i mean armageddon hands
Caption: down every time
Caption: turns out it's not about michael bay
Caption: movies
Caption: and although cyber cyber pearl harbor
Caption: was quite a new phrasing to me because
Caption: like i said i've been in wonderful world
Caption: of devsecops
Caption: um it's actually been around for nearly
Caption: 30 years as a concept so it's not even
Caption: this week's sound bite that you guys
Caption: might have heard at the cyber west
Caption: conference a few weeks ago or watching
Caption: 60 minutes the other week
Caption: um it's a it's like i said 30 years ago
Caption: we coined the expression an electronic
Caption: pearl harbor and it rose to prominence
Caption: again around 2011 2013 time frame when
Caption: the u.s defense secretary leon panetta
Caption: said that he was concerned about a cyber
Caption: pearl harbor and very specifically the
Caption: reference not michael bay but an attack
Caption: on critical infrastructure
Caption: but apparently
Caption: since 2013 it's been imminent
Caption: so i got quite you know watching this
Caption: stuff on on this stage and our fearless
Caption: leaders telling us all about how the
Caption: world is you know
Caption: going to hell in a handbasket or
Caption: whatever the expression is
Caption: like okay how do humans then react to
Caption: these kind of challenging times
Caption: and i was extremely fortunate to be on a
Caption: leadership course where one of the guest
Caption: speakers was tyson jonker porter
Caption: and he was talking about this human
Caption: tendency
Caption: for us to look to leaders in challenging
Caption: times we look to someone else who might
Caption: have the answers to help us and we have
Caption: a tendency to give up our agency
Caption: we see this throughout history whether
Caption: going back to ancient rome napoleon
Caption: hitler nigel farage donald trump
Caption: we look to people who we think have got
Caption: the answers who are strong figures
Caption: and we also see it in the movies
Caption: so say what you like about the first
Caption: three episodes of star wars there's this
Caption: brilliant moment where padme amidala
Caption: says so this is how liberty dies with
Caption: thunderous applause and she's talking
Caption: about that moment
Caption: where they decide to elevate the powers
Caption: to a leader and it's at that point that
Caption: you see the democratic got to get this
Caption: right galactic republic transition into
Caption: the galactic empire dictatorship
Caption: okay so cyber security to me when i was
Caption: in those sessions hearing about the
Caption: cyber pearl harbor and existential
Caption: threats felt
Caption: this seems quite challenging
Caption: do we live in challenging times
Caption: do we ever um the last 12 months alone
Caption: have put humanity through its paces this
Caption: is the stuff that the world has been
Caption: having to contend with
Caption: um
Caption: and how do more than just me how does
Caption: more than just me feel about this if we
Caption: look at australians and say
Caption: do we
Caption: how do we react to to living in
Caption: challenging times australia talks does
Caption: this really great survey where they pull
Caption: us on
Caption: aspects of our day-to-day life that are
Caption: interesting and it's everything from how
Caption: frequently do you change your bed sheets
Caption: through to what are your thoughts about
Caption: restricting your personal freedom for
Caption: the greater good um so it's quite a
Caption: broad section of questions that get
Caption: asked but we learned that in 2019 54 of
Caption: us were comfortable with restricting our
Caption: personal freedoms for the sake of of
Caption: australia
Caption: but in 2021 there is a swing a huge and
Caption: rapid swing of 70 of us are comfortable
Caption: with giving up those personal freedoms
Caption: and that to me is a massive shift in in
Caption: a nation's thoughts and beliefs
Caption: so where to from here we have got cyber
Caption: crime increasing we've got the no the
Caption: notion that there could be a critical
Caption: infrastructure attack and that could be
Caption: absolutely major and catastrophic and
Caption: we've got australian sentiment able to
Caption: shift often rapidly and often
Caption: significantly and we notice that it has
Caption: shifted in in a way that's complementary
Caption: with this tendency of humans to give
Caption: over our agency to someone who's got all
Caption: the answers and can help us and we're
Caption: confounded by this media hype about
Caption: being on the battlefield facing
Caption: existential threats and honestly it's
Caption: quite overwhelming to me and you think
Caption: what on earth can one person do in the
Caption: face of the scale of the things that are
Caption: facing us
Caption: so i was chatting to my husband thinking
Caption: i'm feeling a bit frightened i'm feeling
Caption: a bit uncertain about the future this
Caption: this is like a big stuff that we're
Caption: going to have to wrestle with
Caption: but i don't want to give up i think
Caption: we've got to have
Caption: um belief and positive and focus and a
Caption: way forward into the future and i was
Caption: curious because he works in health and
Caption: safety and the safety professionals have
Caption: been dealing with industries that face
Caption: catastrophe for years so maybe i thought
Caption: there is something i could finally learn
Caption: from
Caption: him so the first thing he introduced me
Caption: to was the catastrophic theory of reform
Caption: which is where you see a catastrophe
Caption: followed by outcry followed by lagging
Caption: regulation
Caption: so on the board here going back to two
Caption: years before the first world war we've
Caption: got the world's first global media event
Caption: which was the titanic
Caption: it made the newspapers in new york and
Caption: london and that was the day after it had
Caption: happened and it led to global outcry
Caption: after that there was a chunk of
Caption: regulation that landed and a majority of
Caption: that is actually still in force today
Caption: and we've seen this repeated pattern of
Caption: a catastrophe followed by regulation
Caption: all the way through to recent times
Caption: some of the
Caption: regulation has been exceptional and very
Caption: valuable but some of the safety
Caption: professionals will also question
Caption: why
Caption: in the face of aeroplane hijacking did
Caption: that lead to security regulation on
Caption: board ships
Caption: was that more to quell the outcry or the
Caption: actual problems that were at hand at
Caption: that time
Caption: which is an interesting angle to explore
Caption: does the media frenzy about um an
Caption: incident
Caption: kind of lead to regulation and can you
Caption: feed regulation into society through
Caption: kind of pumping it through the media
Caption: do we have this trend in cyber security
Caption: for sure yes we do so you may remember
Caption: hopefully the colonial pipeline
Caption: ransomware attack in may this year so
Caption: that happened and within the month the
Caption: transport security administration
Caption: issued their first directive and then a
Caption: month or so later they followed up with
Caption: their second directive and it's pretty
Caption: straightforward stuff it's targeted to
Caption: pipeline owners but it's things like do
Caption: a security architecture review make sure
Caption: you have an emergency backup plan and
Caption: have you considered mitigating some
Caption: stuff to um you know lower your risk in
Caption: the future attack on of ransomware
Caption: attacks
Caption: so
Caption: question for us in the room is is this
Caption: any of this stuff kind of likely to
Caption: happen to us here in wa
Caption: well it's not for me to say how likely
Caption: it is but to me i think it's very
Caption: credible
Caption: if you look at the the structure and the
Caption: makeup of our area you've got highly
Caption: interconnected critical infrastructure
Caption: you've got pipelines
Caption: and you've also got a very complex
Caption: supply chain and that unique geography
Caption: where we connect across vast distances
Caption: to points of technology and culture
Caption: it it's presenting a very interesting
Caption: challenge for us to keep stable secure
Caption: and resilient and i don't think any
Caption: western australian is going to let you
Caption: forget how much of an economic
Caption: contribution we make to australia
Caption: and given that a huge amount of what we
Caption: do is export that's valuable insight for
Caption: someone who's trying to buy the thing
Caption: that we're selling for them to know what
Caption: we are
Caption: running at cost and what the prices are
Caption: that puts them in a very strong
Caption: bargaining position when they're trying
Caption: to negotiate with us for purchasing
Caption: what else is happening to us here well
Caption: we are seeing regulation
Caption: the australian government has produced a
Caption: cyber security strategy that they
Caption: launched last year we we see them
Caption: bolstering law enforcement capability
Caption: they are investing in specific
Caption: jurisdictions and trying to get them
Caption: better
Caption: in a better position to share data and
Caption: to collaborate and ultimately lift their
Caption: own capabilities and responses
Caption: we're seeing an investment in growth on
Caption: cyber security skills even down to the
Caption: six-year-olds in primary school learning
Caption: the basics of cyber hygiene
Caption: they're discussing a bill right now that
Caption: proposes um anyone who is experiencing a
Caption: ransomware attack must notify the acsc
Caption: prior to making any ransomware payments
Caption: they're also dropping lots of
Caption: recommendations and guidelines and
Caption: regulations through things like the asd
Caption: 37 the essential eight
Caption: and they are focusing on critical
Caption: infrastructure so they're making
Caption: amendments to build that exist that
Caption: expands the definition of a critical
Caption: infrastructure from four to eleven so
Caption: now many smaller players suddenly find
Caption: themselves part of the supply chain of a
Caption: critical infrastructure industry and
Caption: subject to that kind of regulation
Caption: and also it allows the asd that's the
Caption: spooks
Caption: to come and lend their expertise when
Caption: you are going through a ransomware
Caption: attack or a critical attack that has
Caption: national
Caption: significance so yeah regulation tick
Caption: we have a parallel between the cyber
Caption: security teams and domains and also the
Caption: safety industry so what else
Caption: maybe regulation is the way that we
Caption: avoid the cyber pearl harbor or the
Caption: cyber titanic
Caption: but if you look at the safety industry
Caption: whilst it has helped prevent some of the
Caption: major catastrophes
Caption: events are still happening all the time
Caption: so
Caption: if regulation is the minimum expectation
Caption: of what we should all be doing what does
Caption: best practice look like what is our hope
Caption: for the future
Caption: um and bearing in mind uh hat tip to
Caption: devsecops we're sort of responsible for
Caption: everything as well right so this is
Caption: interesting for me i feel to explore
Caption: what can we learn about cutting-edge
Caption: thinking
Caption: so my husband introduced me to human and
Caption: organizational performance known as hop
Caption: and essentially incidents become
Caption: learning events
Caption: and the incidents are explored through
Caption: learning teams
Caption: and there are five core principles which
Caption: you'll walk through now just to cement
Caption: the foundation of this in your mind
Caption: and if you leave this room today taking
Caption: nothing away from what i've said please
Caption: make sure that in your work and your
Caption: companies from monday onwards if you
Caption: ever see anybody put root cause equals
Caption: human error you challenge them and you
Caption: don't let that lie
Caption: so what is a principle number one humans
Caption: people are fallible
Caption: we make mistakes to er is human this is
Caption: a 300 year old quote it's not new it's
Caption: not controversial um we're always going
Caption: to make mistakes we do them on average
Caption: seven times an hour which is why your
Caption: backspace key is so shiny
Caption: um
Caption: human error just simply isn't
Caption: interesting and we just really shouldn't
Caption: be surprised when people are making
Caption: mistakes
Caption: um what can we do as a community here
Caption: well we can look at ways to remove the
Caption: need for human involvement in the first
Caption: place therefore reducing the chance of a
Caption: human error things like
Caption: standardize your programming languages
Caption: to be ones that are compatible with the
Caption: security scanning systems
Caption: use reference patterns use repeatable
Caption: tried and tested approaches in your
Caption: designs automate all of the things all
Caption: of the time
Caption: and use things like paved pathways with
Caption: checkpoints and brake build and guard
Caption: rails to help reduce the point of a
Caption: human decision or a human involvement
Caption: principle number two error likely
Caption: conditions are in fact present
Caption: predictable
Caption: so although you don't necessarily know
Caption: when an error is going to happen
Caption: you're actually quite good at figuring
Caption: out where an error might happen
Caption: so what we can start to do in our
Caption: workplace is learn to recognize what is
Caption: an error likely condition
Caption: in pubs across the world irish pubs
Caption: you'll see signs like this
Caption: how many of you know
Caption: where you need to go to the restroom
Caption: when faced with that sign
Caption: and how many of you would know after two
Caption: or three guinnesses
Caption: this is an error likely situation
Caption: we can improve upon the design
Caption: by adding a little bit more insight
Caption: and just because you've improved your
Caption: design once doesn't mean you can't
Caption: continue to improve and give people a
Caption: fighting chance to go where they really
Caption: mean to go
Caption: um in the same place of
Caption: of
Caption: security that there are error likely
Caption: situations everywhere this is the
Caption: devsecops infinity loop with all the
Caption: security services that we could offer
Caption: um and so
Caption: knowing that people are likely to make
Caption: mistakes in their planning phase we
Caption: offer the security architecture
Caption: assessment and review knowing that
Caption: people are likely to introduce errors
Caption: into their code we do manual code review
Caption: and knowing that secure code reviewers
Caption: are humans and are liable to make
Caption: mistakes we do automated secure code
Caption: reviews um
Caption: i probably could stay on this slide for
Caption: about four hours but noting we're
Caption: running a little late i'm going to scoot
Caption: on to
Caption: number three which is that individual
Caption: behaviors are influenced
Caption: i think anyone who's ever sent their kid
Caption: to daycare can really relate to this one
Caption: behavior is a result of both beliefs and
Caption: attitudes
Caption: and it's also formed by what we're
Caption: getting exposed to
Caption: so at an afl match
Caption: most people would feel comfortable to
Caption: shout loudly
Caption: but i suspect the majority of us would
Caption: not feel comfortable to shout loudly in
Caption: a place of worship
Caption: how do i translate this into the
Caption: workplace well one of the most common
Caption: things that i see is presenteeism
Caption: you are in your office everyone around
Caption: you is working for 14 hours a day
Caption: you are going to feel a bit
Caption: uncomfortable trying to get up after
Caption: eight hours
Caption: what is happening
Caption: is because around you they've normalized
Caption: the experience of staying in the office
Caption: for long hours regardless of the fact
Caption: you all signed up for your eight hour
Caption: contracts
Caption: you're drifting away from the expected
Caption: process
Caption: and that's one of the key elements about
Caption: these human and organizational
Caption: performance the hop principles and the
Caption: process is looking for points where
Caption: you're you're drifting away from what
Caption: you're expected to do
Caption: so let's bring that to security
Caption: i see many amazing developers disabling
Caption: their security scanning in their build
Caption: pipelines
Caption: um because arguably the security tests
Caption: apparently take too long to run and
Caption: we'll probably find vulnerabilities
Caption: which are going to take some time to fix
Caption: so you see a behavior that is normalized
Caption: of prioritizing ship to production as
Caption: fast and as quickly as possible
Caption: regardless of the quality of the product
Caption: and when management repeatedly accepts
Caption: the risk they're reinforcing this
Caption: behavior so the black line is what the
Caption: security department thinks you're doing
Caption: the blue line is what you're actually
Caption: doing which will have all those points
Caption: of deviation which may have been
Caption: normalized in your workplace and 99
Caption: times out of 100 you're gonna get away
Caption: with it because we converge at the end
Caption: but there is a lot of inherent risk in
Caption: what has actually happened versus what
Caption: the ivory tower security team believes
Caption: is happening
Caption: principle number four operational upsets
Caption: can be avoided aka pearl harbor cyber
Caption: pearl harbor is not actually inevitable
Caption: we can design resilient i.t systems
Caption: so we learn from our past events
Caption: we model cyber security risks engage
Caption: cyber security professionals
Caption: and design your scenarios and your
Caption: systems to have risk as low as
Caption: reasonably practical
Caption: so
Caption: this family are off an adventure one
Caption: flat tire is not going to spoil their
Caption: fun
Caption: given where they're going they've
Caption: determined that having the second spare
Caption: tire the cost benefit of that second
Caption: spare tyre is reasonable and practical
Caption: so what does it look like for us at work
Caption: well how many people here have got a
Caption: magnet on their fridge that tells them
Caption: who to phone when their child or family
Caption: member gets sick or unwell
Caption: how many of you got something that tells
Caption: you who to phone at work when you're
Caption: working at home and your system has just
Caption: got ransomware and you can't even log in
Caption: to figure out who the phone number to
Caption: are
Caption: we don't necessarily plan for the
Caption: disaster scenario particularly well but
Caption: the health and safety guys have brought
Caption: that mindset through to the industries
Caption: they work with
Caption: so they will plan
Caption: for the emergency situation and it
Caption: allows them to contain and control it as
Caption: much as they possibly can and reduce the
Caption: potential scope of a catastrophe
Caption: so they plan the emergency they document
Caption: every single step that every person
Caption: should follow in that situation
Caption: they print out and laminate copies of
Caption: contact details and processes
Caption: and they also run tabletop exercises to
Caption: increase familiarity
Caption: we see so many times when we go into
Caption: companies and there's been an incident
Caption: the first thing that the human tries to
Caption: do is is that oh god i've got to fix
Caption: this and they try and restore and
Caption: recover and get services running for the
Caption: customer
Caption: um but actually one of the things that
Caption: we really wish people would do is pause
Caption: and take a forensic snapshot because
Caption: that can give you insight into maybe how
Caption: you got compromised by the criminals and
Caption: what they've taken and i tell you
Caption: knowing those two pieces of information
Caption: will save you weeks of worry and
Caption: heartache and extra work downstream
Caption: and our fifth principle which is
Caption: management response to failure this
Caption: really matters responding negatively is
Caption: going to lead to undesirable behaviors
Caption: and it will hinder our ability to learn
Caption: and grow
Caption: so you can blame and punish you can
Caption: learn and improve but you cannot do both
Caption: and management needs to recognize that
Caption: learning is real work it's legitimate
Caption: worthwhile use of our time
Caption: and people need to be able to report and
Caption: feel that they're in a safe space no
Caption: reprisal and discuss
Caption: where maybe those points of drift have
Caption: occurred
Caption: okay so
Caption: those are the core principles of hop
Caption: what do we do with that in our mind how
Caption: do we maybe translate some of these
Caption: security safety analogies into something
Caption: that in cyber security we could run with
Caption: from tomorrow
Caption: we are going to look at the idea of a
Caption: learning team
Caption: this is where events are explored based
Caption: on their potential severity so the first
Caption: thing the safety professionals recognize
Caption: is that a near miss
Caption: is as informative as the real deal and
Caption: quite often the only difference between
Caption: a near miss and an event is just sheer
Caption: bad luck
Caption: we've actually got a lot to be learned
Caption: from those potentially
Caption: potential events with potential high
Caption: severity and the other thing is it has
Caption: to be key that there is something to
Caption: learn so you don't do it when it's
Caption: simple and obvious like
Caption: why would you run a learning team for
Caption: person clicks on sms scam
Caption: we've got nothing to learn from the fact
Caption: that people are curious
Caption: and intrigued and click on stuff they
Caption: shouldn't like we figured that one out a
Caption: long time ago what we could do is apply
Caption: energies to stop the sms from reaching
Caption: that person in the first place
Caption: like the cleaner pipes initiative
Caption: so we want to run a learning team when
Caption: there is a potentially high severity
Caption: nature to the near miss or the event and
Caption: also when we haven't figured out
Caption: everything about it we've still got
Caption: something to learn we're still confused
Caption: by what's going on
Caption: how do we run the learning teams well we
Caption: mentioned that management response to
Caption: failure is really critical management
Caption: buy-in to this kind of concept is also
Caption: really important because we're going to
Caption: need them to sponsor the event these
Caption: things don't happen in the standard one
Caption: and a half hours to two hours of your
Caption: post-incident review meeting that you
Caption: used to these things run on for two days
Caption: and they run on for two days for a
Caption: couple of reasons first of all is it
Caption: gets you out of that rabbit in
Caption: headlights moment if you're in a pir and
Caption: you're put on the spot to think and have
Caption: all the answers and be creative there's
Caption: that kind of panic or or frozen
Caption: experience that you get and it's
Caption: preventing you from allowing the ideas
Caption: to flow and the other one which i'm sure
Caption: loads of you have experienced is that
Caption: eureka moment where you step away from
Caption: the situation or your desk and you
Caption: you could be out for a walk it could be
Caption: in the shower and it just suddenly that
Caption: moment strikes you and you realize i
Caption: know what i need to do i don't know if
Caption: it's called soak time because you're in
Caption: the shower but
Caption: there is that concept of taking time to
Caption: experience something you can be even
Caption: more creative and thoughtful
Caption: so
Caption: another part of how we learn the teams
Caption: is we get the right people into the room
Caption: and we gather collected people who've
Caption: got
Caption: related and tangential and also direct
Caption: experience of the processes and the
Caption: systems that might have been involved
Caption: and on the screen here you've got ted
Caption: lasso's diamond dogs
Caption: actually that's the second thing you
Caption: need to take away from my presentation
Caption: today go watch ted lasso it's the best
Caption: thing in the world
Caption: this is a fabulous learning team in
Caption: action they've got a player they've got
Caption: a coach with related experience from a
Caption: different sport they've got an
Caption: operationals manager they've got the
Caption: locker room attendant and they've got
Caption: the remarkable ted lasso who creates a
Caption: wonderful safe space for them to explore
Caption: ideas
Caption: and another thing is to have a third
Caption: party facilitator so have someone in the
Caption: room who has no bias
Caption: what we find through the classic five
Caption: wires of incident investigation is
Caption: humans tend to have a belief about what
Caption: they think has happened and they will
Caption: drill down to make sure it lands and
Caption: reconfirms their biased starting
Caption: position
Caption: and that third-party external
Caption: facilitator will help you
Caption: to create that safe space by reducing
Caption: this
Caption: fear of blame and reprisal
Caption: and like i said scheduling these things
Caption: it's a two-day thing i mean i still
Caption: actually stand here on stage and say we
Caption: should do this and struggle to believe
Caption: that this is what we should do like who
Caption: gives up two days to anything in
Caption: it's tricky right
Caption: what would the two days start with so
Caption: you'd be on day one you'd be talking
Caption: about anything except the actual event
Caption: and one of the things you can do is to
Caption: open up the dialogue and ask people what
Caption: are you upset about right now
Caption: get it off your chest just have a rant
Caption: get on your soapbox go for gold and
Caption: you'll get they don't approve my
Caption: timesheets on time i hate the chocolate
Caption: in the vending machine and another thing
Caption: and another thing and once you've got
Caption: through that you've created a safe space
Caption: where people where humans feel listened
Caption: to and that their opinion counts
Caption: they are so much more likely to feel
Caption: that they can contribute and that their
Caption: contribution is going to be valuable
Caption: and you take time to understand how
Caption: their job is done
Caption: remember the drift like that's how the
Caption: job is done it doesn't matter what the
Caption: process says it was at this stage we
Caption: need to uncover the points of drift
Caption: and i know we all do this avoid going
Caption: into your solution instant problem
Caption: solving mode
Caption: and then on day two that's when you move
Caption: the focus to the actual event itself so
Caption: all of day one is is nothing that is
Caption: focused on the thing that's caused you
Caption: even to convene this learning team
Caption: and you're drilling down into how do you
Caption: do what you do you cover the walls with
Caption: whiteboard
Caption: scribbles or post-it notes and you map
Caption: out how each person does their job for
Caption: real life
Caption: and what are the outcomes from a
Caption: learning team
Caption: so you're looking at something that is
Caption: identifying how the job is done and how
Caption: it can be done better
Caption: you are acknowledging that people will
Caption: drift away from the defined process
Caption: and that's often because the processes
Caption: are just unrealistic they're just
Caption: unworkable but no one's managed to
Caption: figure out how to communicate that to
Caption: the person that wrote the process
Caption: and you find better ways to do the work
Caption: and you share those learnings as widely
Caption: as you can to
Caption: reduce the likelihood of reoccurrence
Caption: simple there you go to solve all the
Caption: problems
Caption: in summary
Caption: so we are on the battlefield we are
Caption: facing existential threats
Caption: we have got ransomware increasing at an
Caption: alarming rate and you can buy it for a
Caption: couple of dollars and you don't need any
Caption: technical skill to kick it into action
Caption: and a cyber pearl harbor is imminent
Caption: we've learned that humans will
Caption: look for a leader and hand over their
Caption: agency to someone who has all the
Caption: answers
Caption: we can see that right now australian
Caption: sentiment has shifted complementary to
Caption: that and that 70 of us would be more
Caption: comfortable doing that
Caption: and we all know where that leads
Caption: quite the thing to live in fear isn't it
Caption: but not wanting to give up hope
Caption: we've had a look at there may be a place
Caption: for regulation
Caption: and it has had some positive effects but
Caption: there's also examples of where
Caption: maybe the regulation has been more for
Caption: the outcry than the actual event itself
Caption: and then we've had a look at the world
Caption: of human and organizational performance
Caption: we've moved away from blaming and
Caption: shaming and
Caption: human error as a root cause and incident
Caption: investigations and the five wise which
Caption: is the blunt tool of blame and we've had
Caption: a look at maybe we changed the dialogue
Caption: we accept that human make mistake it's
Caption: not going to surprise us there's nothing
Caption: new to learn from that
Caption: we get people together we make a safe
Caption: space inclusive multiple different
Caption: diverse points of view are welcome and
Caption: we run a learning team and we genuinely
Caption: are working on learning for the best
Caption: benefit of the whole
Caption: and with that maybe we have this
Caption: opportunity so please don't give over
Caption: your agency just yet
Caption: come together create and promote those
Caption: safe spaces
Caption: work together following those principles
Caption: and who knows maybe we'll survive or or
Caption: not even have to deal with a cyber pearl
Caption: harbor of our own
Caption: thank you